---
layout: post
title:  "Anscombe's Quartet and the Dinosaurus "
author: ndcharles
categories: [ Data]
image: assets/images/anscombe_dinosaurus.webp)
Last_modified: 
tags: [anscombe, dinosaurus, visualization, summary_statistics]
---
1. Reference prompting: Here you provide context or reference materials by adding related text to your query you want the gpt to search and get the answers. This is used when you want specific responses and have access to supporting materials for context.
2. Zero shot and few shot: shot refers to the number to examples you provide the AI. Zero shot means adding reference but no guide on how you expect your responses. Few shot means giving examples on how you want the response to flow; voice, tone and keywords. This case is likened to creating a pattern and the AI tries to match the pattern. Example, to create a list or questions, you create few input and the AI continues.
3. Chain-of-thought: this inves creating a logical sequence on how the response should go. It involves, referencing, few shots and/or zero+few shots. Let's take this step-by-step
4. Take a deep breath and work step-by-step. This instruction makes the AI start in a detailed stepwise manner
5. Generated knowledge: this is where examples are first generated by the AI using few shots prompting then the response is then used to get further detailed responses.
6. Train of thought prompting. This involves getting the AI to generate several responses and eliminates the wrong answer by itself.
7. Directional stimulus prompting. This can be straightforward as it uses reference prompting but then provides a hint on what piece of information should be highlighted from the original text. Example, summary of a text input that should include a hint, the location of the xter. This is good for essay questions 
8. Chain of density prompting. Used to summarise huge texts into a solid summary and then checking that it is correct; all done in one prompt.



- city dashboards 
- cc conversion % for sprint 1 
- data warehouse 
- city repository 
- 


